Git Commands

Git init = To initialize the Git inside particular folder.
 Git Repository are divided into three staging area
	1- Modified
	2- Stage
	3- Commit

git add filename = to add single file in the repo in the staging area.
git add . = add all the files in the repo in the staging area.

git status = To know the status of the file weather its in state of Staged or not. (make sure the color of the file in Green)
git rm --cached = Unstage the files from the staging.

git commit = To commit the changes in the local GIT repo.
git commit -m "Message" = To add the additional comment/message to the specific commit.

git log = To check the logs of the commit made on the files
git log --oneline = To check the logs of the commit made on the files in short line.

git checkout unique id of the commit = To check the state of the file during that commit made.
git checkout master = again it will show the latest state of the file.
(note this command will not do any change or revert the file to the point in time commit)

git revert unique id of the commit = To revert to the state of file point in time while it got committed.
(note this command will create a new commit with the tag of that commit which you reverted)

git reset unique id of the commit = To reset the file to the state of the commit which made point in time.
git reset unique id of the commit --hard = This will reset the file but will delete the code files or the changes in
codes as well from the file.

git branch branchname = This command is used for testing the current state of the code and adding in new line of code
or checking the new feature
git branch -a = This command will show the branch to the master branch.
git checkout -b branchname = This command will create a new branch as well as checkout to the newly created branch.
git checkout branchname = This command with switch the text editor to the branch state of the file where
you want to test that feature.
git checkout master = This will switch the working file to the master file again.
git branch -D branchname = This will delete the branch which was created to test the feature or line of code.
(Note make sure before running this command to switch back to the master by running the command git checkout master)

git merge branchname = Make sure to come to master branch before running this command. This command
will merge the changes which was carried out in the designated branchname.

Some times there will be conflict between the branch and the master file while merging the files.
This happens when you edit on the master file without telling team.
In this case verify the conflict and edit the code in the line and add and commit the change.

GitHub

- git push github url "branchname" : to upload the repository on github
- git remote add origin "github url"
 
